                THE BUNYIP OF BERKELEY'S CREEK
                        by Jenny Wagner

Late one night, for no particular reason, something stirred in the black
mud at the bottom of Berkeley's Creek. The fish swam away in fright, and
the night birds in the trees hid their heads under their wings. When
they looked again, something very large and very muddy was sitting on
the bank.

"What am I?" it murmured. "What am I, what am I, what am I?" And the
night birds quickly hid their heads under their wings again.

In the morning the thing was still sitting there, scraping the mud off
itself to see what was underneath. "What am I?" it kept saying, "What am
I?" But the night birds were all asleep.

A passing platypus solved the problem. "You are a bunyip," he said.
"Bunyip," murmured the bunyip contentedly. "Bunyip." Then he sat up
straight and called out, "What do I look like?" But the platypus had
dived into the creek. "Am I handsome?" called the bunyip. "Am I?" But
nobody answered him, and the bunyip went on sitting there for a long
time, lost in thought.

Presently a wallaby came by to drink at the creek. "What do bunyips look
like?" asked the bunyip. "Horrible," said the wallaby. "They have webbed
feet, and feathers." "Fine, handsome feathers?" said the bunyip
hopefully. "Horrible feathers," said the wallaby firmly, and finished
her drink and hopped off. "Handsome webbed feet?" called the bunyip, but
there was no answer. The bunyip sighed and walked off to find someone
else.

There was a rustling in the bushes behind him, and suddenly an emu shot
past. "Wait!" called the bunyip, running after him. "What do bunyips
look like?" The emu stopped and considered. "They have fur," he said at
last, "and tails." "How many tails?" asked the bunyip. "One to each
bunyip," replied the emu. "Fine, handsome tails?" said the bunyip.
"Horrible tails," said the emu, "and even more horrible fur." And he
settled his feathers and crouched down low, and streaked off into the
distance.

The bunyip wandered sadly along the creek. "Will someone tell me what
bunyips look like?" he said, to anyone who would listen. But there was
no answer.

Further along the creek he met a man. The man was busy with a notebook
and pencil, and did not look at the bunyip. "Sh," he said, "I'm busy."
The bunyip waited for a long time, and then he said, very slowly and
clearly, "Can you please tell me what bunyips look like?" "Yes," said
the man, without looking up. "Bunyips do not look like anything." "Like
nothing?" said the bunyip. "Like nothing at all," said the man. "Are you
sure?" said the bunyip. "Quite sure," said the man, and looked right
through him. "Bunyips simply do not exist."

The bunyip was shaken. Then he sighed a long, deep sigh. "What a pity,"
he murmured. "What a pity, what a pity." And he walked slowly back to
his waterhole. Then he fished his belongings out of the water, packed
them in his bunyip bag, and walked away. No one saw him go.

The bunyip walked all day, and just as the sun was setting he came to a
quiet, still billabong. "This will do," said the bunyip to himself. "No
one can see me here. I can be as handsome as I like." And he unpacked
his bag, and laid his bunyip comb and mirror out on the sand, and put
his billy on to boil.

No one saw him and no one spoke to him. But late that night, for no
particular reason, something stirred in the black mud at the bottom of
the billabong. The bunyip put his comb down in surprise, and stared.
Something very large and very muddy was sitting on the bank. "What am
I?" it murmured. "What am I, what am I?"

The bunyip jumped up in delight. "You are a bunyip!" he shouted. "Am I?
Am I really?" asked the other bunyip; and then, "What do I look like?"
"You look just like me," said the bunyip happily. And he lent her his
mirror to prove it.


